VISION
To be the most innovative technology solutions partner of
choice to our global customers.

MISSION
Deliver the right technology solutions at reasonable
engineering spend to our customers for fulfilling their
transformational and sustaining software engineering needs.

OUR BELIEFS
BUILDING TRUST IS KEY TO SUCCESS
Winning the trust of Customers, Partners and Employees is the
key to success
Maintain Confidentiality and Transparency with utmost care
CUSTOMER FIRST
Always uphold customer interests
Honor and protect customer IP rights
EMPLOYEES ARE OUR GREATEST ASSET

Groom like a family promoting team spirit
Work-hard, party-harder
INVEST IN KNOWLEDGE CREATION

Excel in every aspect of engineering by practicing the latest
technologies
Adopt new processes, methodologies and tools to achieve
operational excellence

CONTENTS
01

|

WELCOME

02

|

ABOUT TRENSER

03

|

INTRODUCTION

05

|

POINT OF CONTACTS
- Your Reporting Manager

07

|

- HR Assistance

|

WORKING WITH US
- Recruitment Process
- Employee Welfare

11

|

COMPENSATION

12

|

LEAVES AND HOLIDAYS

14

|

WORKPLACE CONDUCT
- Workplace Etiquettes

- Email Etiquettes
16

|

DRESS CODE

17

|

WORKING HOURS

18

|

USE OF EQUIPMENT

18

|

USE OF INTERNET

20

|

TRAVEL POLICY
- Domestic Travel
- International Travel

22

|

PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL

24

|

CAREER PROGRESSION
- Engineering Jobs
- Non-engineering Jobs

32

|

GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL

33

|

RESIGNATION OR TERMINATION

36

|

EXIT AND SEPARATION POLICY

38

|

GENERAL INFORMATION

WELCOME!

Dear Trensian,
It is indeed a privilege to have you as a member of Trenser
Family.
We are pleased to share this handbook, which contains the
essential HR policies of Trenser.

This handbook explains the policies that apply to every Trensian
and serves as a quick reference guide. It will help you understand
the organizations’ culture and familiarize yourself to be part of
Team Trenser.
We trust that you will find it as a valuable resource of information.
Sincerely,
HR Manager

Welcome
onboard. Happy
Reading!

Page 1

ABOUT TRENSER
Trenser is a technology-led software services company aspiring to
fulfill the software product development needs of technology
companies across the globe. We are proud to become a trusted
partner to today’s enterprises building software solutions for
tomorrow. Our goal is to understand customers' needs and thoughts
to create software that aligns with their wishes. We are passionate
about developing future-ready software today.
Trenser is formed by a group of top-notch software experts with an
aggregate experience of over 250 person-years in the software
industry. Our vision is to build lasting software solutions and
enduring partnerships with our customers.
We provide embedded, mobile, web, and cloud-based software
development services in multiple industry verticals to global
technology companies to fulfill their software development needs,
working as a trusted partner. We always strive to think from the
customer's perspective and have an unshakeable commitment to
continuously learning, which is the secret sauce of our success.

KEY VERTICALS

SERVICES

z

Healthcare

z

Industrial

Application Software

z

Retail

Embedded Software

z

Consumer & Media

Page 2

Digital Engineering

Software Testing

INTRODUCTION
This handbook is a compilation of personnel policies and
procedures currently in effect at Trenser Technology Solutions (P)
Ltd. The handbook is designed to introduce you to Trenser,
familiarize you with its policies, and provide general guidelines on
work rules, employee benefits, and other aspects of your
employment with us. It will help answer many questions that you
may have about your job.
This handbook is not a contract of employment. It serves as an
overview of the company policies and a quick reference book. It
will only cover certain typical matters that might arise in the
workplace. For this reason, should you have specific questions
regarding the applicability of a policy or practice, please feel free
to contact the Human Resources team.

TEAM TRENSER
At Trenser, we believe that every one of us is part of one larger
team. We call it "Team Trenser." The contribution of each team
member is vital and valued. The best outcomes are produced
when the entire teams across the company work together in
cohesion. Great teams are built on mutual trust, shared
ownership, and accountability. We call every member of the
"Team Trenser" a "Trensian." We always act as one company,
and when we work together, we strive to meet and exceed the
needs of our customers.

Page 3

Every team member contributes to forming the culture of Trenser
— with the words we use, the actions we take, how we treat each
other, our passion for technology, our quest for continuous
learning, and how we value our customers. We can build a strong
culture by satisfying companywide behavioral expectations that
align with our vision, values, and goals.

Teamwork is the
basic building block
of every successful
organization. Keep
up team spirit.

Trenser reserves the right to modify its policies and procedures. We will
notify you of such changes by email and other appropriate means.
Page 4

POINT OF CONTACTS
Beyond this handbook there are many additional resources you
can turn to for more information, help, and guidance.

YOUR REPORTING MANAGER
Your reporting manager is the first person you should go to,
whenever possible, if you have questions about:
Trenser policies and guidelines
Workplace issues
Performance feedback

Job expectations
Leaves and special permissions
Career development
You and your reporting manager depend on each other to
succeed professionally; he or she is accountable for the work you
do and is committed to helping you do the best job you can. In
turn, your working relationship contributes to the success of the
other Trensians in your business unit and overall goals of the
company.

NON-URGENT ENQUIRIES
For non-urgent enquiries including corrective action reviews,
attendance/ punctuality issues, behavioral issues, issue of
certificates or policy interpretation, you can send email to
hr@trenser.com requesting a meeting, clarification or suggestion.
Matters related to general administration, infrastructure and office
supplies shall be reported at the HRMS portal Keka->Help Desk.

Page 5

HR ASSISTANCE
To assist you with questions related to our HR programs, policies,
or practices and to work with you in resolving any workplacerelated issues or concerns you may contact our HR manager. We
have an open mindset, and we follow an equal opportunity
workplace for everyone irrespective of their job position, gender,
ethnicity, religion or disabilities when it comes to the general
wellbeing of every Trensian. Therefore, any concerns or
suggestions for improvement shall be brought to the notice of HR.
Examples of issues or concerns that HR will assist you with is
listed below but not limited to:
Providing answers and advice for questions or concerns
about workplace policies or situations.
Addressing a sensitive workplace concern that your reporting
manager is unable to assist you with or you are not
comfortable speaking about it with your reporting manager.
Facilitating the resolution of a conflict with your reporting
manager or a team member that you’ve tried to resolve.
Providing consultation to all Trensians about their respective
responsibilities.
Conducting a review of a disputed employment action.
For situations that require an immediate response, including
inappropriate behavior, workplace disruption, situations that may
result in potential customer impact, or situations that may warrant
sending a team member home for the day, please meet HR
manager or the nearest available senior manager in person or
contact them over their mobile or via landline numbers +91-(471)405-5066 and +91-471-270-0844.

Page 6

WORKING WITH US
We provide an eco-friendly, comfortable and healthy workplace
that ensures equal employment opportunity, diversity and
inclusiveness. We are committed to the wellbeing of everyone in
a conducive work environment that is open, transparent,
approachable and friendly.

EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
The following guiding principles drive our culture and commitment
to society when it is about employment with us. We are steadfast
to abide by these principles, right from our recruitment cycle.

We do not discriminate our workforce. We rather embrace
social and cultural diversity into our culture. We do not
differentiate, or favor people based on gender, ethnicity,
religion or disabilities.
Employee engagement and leadership commitment are key
to the continuous improvement of the organization and its
work environment. We have employee engagement programs
focused to ensure their wellbeing and are always open to
ideas for improving it with an investment-ready mindset.
While providing a comfortable work environment, we strive to
conserve energy through various energy management
measures. We continuously motivate and engage everyone
to help implement an energy-efficient workplace.

RECRUITMENT PROCESS
Trenser adopts a consistent recruiting policy and ensures
meritorious candidates are hired through a well-organized and fair

Page 7

process. Recruitment may be taken up through external
Placement Consultants; advertisements, direct application,
employee reference, campus recruitments, etc. The hierarchy of
preference being - employee referrals, walk-in recruitment drives,
job advertisements, job portal listing and place consultants.
New Job Opening

Prepare Job Description

Job Posting

Shortlisting Candidates

Selection Process
Written Test
Interview
Job Offer
Send Offer Letter
Candidate Acceptance
Joining

Onboarding

Induction

Typical Recruitment Cycle

EMPLOYEE REFERRAL SCHEME
We encourage Trensians to refer eligible candidates to join
Trenser. We believe that they can bring in the right talents to grow
Team Trenser. Our employee referral scheme provides a referral
bonus
Page 8

bonus to Trensians whose references have successfully resulted
in onboarding of the referred candidate. Referral schemes will be
announced within the company from time to time, based on new
job openings.
New Job
Opening

• Job Description
• Official E-mail announcement

Referrals

• Trensians submit resumes
• Initial screening conducted

Selection
Process

• Test
• Interview

Job Offer

• Release offer letter
• Candidate accepts offer

Joining

• Onboarding
• Induction

Referral
Bonus

• Referral Bonus disbursal

Typical Referral Scheme Cycle

EMPLOYEE WELFARE
Wellbeing of all our employees is of prime importance to us. We
have a handful of extra benefits that we offer to all our employees
as listed below. Some of them are availed based on certain
qualifying
Page 9

qualifying criteria. Whereas some benefits are periodic in nature,
some others are onetime as listed in the table below.
Scheme

Qualifying Criteria

Benefits

Marriage
Gift

Trensian who gets
married during their
tenure with us.

Gift card amounting to INR 10,000.00

Marriage
Dinner
Treat

Trensian who gets
married during their
tenure with us.

Executive dining for the couple at a fine
dining place in the city subject to a
maximum expense of INR 4,000/-

Group
Mediclaim

All Trensians

Sum Insured INR 2,00,000/Reimbursement of medical expenses in
case of hospitalization of Trensians, their
dependent children and parents.

Group
Personal
Accident
Insurance

All Trensians

Zero
All Trensians
Balance
Bank
Account
with VISA
Platinum
Debit Card*

Sum Insured (S.I) per Employee INR
5,00,000/- Accidental Death covered for 100% of
Sum Insured
- Permanent Total Disability covered for
100% of Sum Insured
- Permanent Partial Disability covered as
per insurance policy conditions
- Temporary Total Disability 1% of Sum
Insured subject to a max. of INR 5,000/per week.
Accidental Insurance
- Free Personal Accidental Death Cover
up to INR 20,00,000/-.
- Free Air Accident Death Cover up to
INR 1,25,00,000/Debit Card Benefits
- 1% Cashback (up to INR. 750/-per
month) on shopping at select merchant
categories
- ATM withdrawal limit of INR 1,00,000/and shopping limit of INR 5,00,000/-

* Subject to change in policies and available offers from our bankers
Page 10

COMPENSATION
All Trensians on regular payroll including lateral entrant
probationers come under a common compensation plan. The
annual CTC will comprise of the following components:
#

Description

Remarks/ Sum

1

Basic

2

Houser Rent Allowance

3

Conveyance Allowance

4

Special Allowance

5

Bonus and Exgratia

6

Food Allowance

7

Fixed Gross Salary

8

Employer Contribution PF

9

Gratuity

10

Group Mediclaim

11

Annual CTC

(1+2+3+4+5+6)

(7+8+9+10)
SALARY BREAK UP

Monthly take-home salary will be Fixed Gross Salary (#7)
minus the Employee part of PF Contribution and Food
Allowance (if Food Plus Card is opted).
Group Mediclaim – there will be change in actual amount as
the premium changes during the annual renewal of the policy.

SALARY DISBURSEMENT
Salaries for each month will be disbursed on the last working day
of that month. The amount shall be directly credited to the
respective bank account of the employee. Credited amounts are
subject applicable deductions which may vary from month to
month. Any salary related queries shall be brought to the notice of
HR immediately.

Page 11

LEAVES AND HOLIDAYS
Leaves are calculated based on the calendar year starting from
1st January to 31st December. Our leave policies apply to all
Trensians equally and are summarized below*.
Type of Leave

No. of Leaves

Description

General Leave
(GL)

12 Days

Credited at the beginning of the half
year ( January and July) or at pro-rata
basis for new joinees.

Earned Leave**
(EL)

13 Days

Accrual based on date of joining. But
can be availed only after confirmation.

Maternity
Leave
(ML)

26 Weeks
(Maximum
twice)

Female employees on our regular
rolls who have completed at least 80
working days with us.

Paternity Leave
(PL)

3 Days
(Maximum
twice)

Male employees on regular rolls with
us.

Bereavement
Leave
(BL)

3 Working
Days

In the unfortunate event of loss of
immediate family members (Parents,
spouse, siblings and children only).

Special Medical
Leave
(SML)

10 Days
(Once in 2
years)

Confirmed employees can apply in
case of major illness or accidents that
require medical procedures, hospital
admission etc.

Adoption Leave
(AL)

15 Days/ 90
Days

Female employees on our regular
rolls who have completed at least 80
working days are eligible.

* Please refer latest annual leave policy document for more details.
** Earned Leaves will be carried over at the end of each calendar year
subject to maximum accrued limit of 30 ELs.
** Earned Leaves may be encashed once a year by keeping a minimum
accrued balance of 10 ELs after encashment.
Page 12

HOLIDAYS
All Trensians are entitled to avail of certain paid holidays during
the year. Holidays are calculated annually, based on the calendar
year starting 1st January. The holiday calendar shall be prepared
and communicated before the commencement of each year.
Total 13 holidays are available in a year under two categories as
explained below:
DECLARED COMPANY HOLIDAYS
In a year there will be 11 declared holidays for the company.
These will be selected from the national, regional and state
declared public holidays.
RESTRICTED HOLIDAYS
In addition to the declared company holidays, employees are
entitled to avail 2 Restricted Holidays (RH) from a list of 5
Available Restricted Holidays. If an employee joins after mid-year
(June 30), the number of RH entitled will be 1. The list of
Available Restricted Holidays for each year also will be published
as part of the annual holiday list.
You are requested to inform your reporting manager in advance
to avail the RH.

* Please refer latest annual leave policy document for more details.

Page 13

WORKPLACE CONDUCT
Your actions must always reflect the highest possible standards
of business conduct and general ethics suitable for creating a
healthy work environment. You’re expected to conduct all your
actions and behaviors in a highly professional manner. You are
requested to make use of good judgement at workplace, always
upholding the values and beliefs of the organization.
Unprofessional and inappropriate behavior includes but not
limited to:
Outbursts
Yelling
Rudeness
Bullying

Sexual or other unlawful or unwelcome harassment
Distracting behavior
Favoritism

WORKPLACE ETIQUETTES
Trensians are always encouraged to maintain a positive work
environment and treat everyone else with due respect and
courtesy.
Even though there is no hard and fast rule, abiding to simple
etiquettes is expected in a professional office setting. To list down
a few are,

Page 14

Use of the office internet facility must not disrupt the
operation of network and must not affect your productivity.
Avoid public accusations or criticisms of fellow workers.
Discuss issues privately or involve your reporting manager.
Try not to block walkways while carrying group conversations.
Refrain from using inappropriate language (swearing).

When listening to voice mail, music, or while using
speakerphones limit the volume and avoid distraction to
others.
Retrieve your print jobs in a timely manner and be sure to
collect all your printed pages from the printer.
Reload paper in the printer/ copying machine when they are
empty.
Confidential documents if found left publicly, bring it to the
notice of your reporting manager immediately.
Be careful not to retrieve or discard others' print jobs when
collecting your own.

EMAIL ETIQUETTES
Always use a clear and concise subject line.
Do use professionally acceptable salutation.
Do proofread your message before sending.
Do respond to all your emails. Avoid “Replying All” to emails
addressed to large groups.
Always include your email signature.

Don’t use humor when communicating official matters.

Page 15

Refrain from sending an immediate response when you’re
angry.
Don’t overuse exclamation marks, emoticons, all CAPITALS
and abbreviations like “LOL”, as these do not translate well in
business communication.
Don’t use informal languages unless you know the recipient
and context extremely well.

DRESS CODE
Our official dress code is business formals or business casuals
on all working days. We encourage you to be in tidy, wellgroomed and appealing work-appropriate outfits every day.
GENTS
Shirts, T-Shirts with collar, Trousers/ Pants or Jeans

Shoes/ Sneakers
Flip-flops are not allowed
Jeans with torn knees or similar, T-Shirts without collar,
Cargos, 3/4th Trousers etc. are not allowed.

LADIES
Churidars, Sarees or they can follow the dress code of gents
Shoes or Sneakers are not mandatory

Avoid spaghetti and transparent dresses, unkempt hair etc.
Flip-flops are not allowed

Note:- During customer visits or other special occasions, there may be changes
in the general dress code adherence policy. This will be communicated in
advance.
Page 16

WORKING HOURS
Normal working hours of the office is 8:30 AM to 5:30 PM on all
working days*. Business meetings and client interactions are of
highest priority to serve our customers better, hence your
presence in the office during normal working hours is mandatory.
We have a five-day working week, Monday through Friday.

ATTENDANCE AND PUNCTUALITY
You are expected to be conscientious about attendance and
punctuality at work. Regular and dependable attendance is an
essential responsibility of your job function.
While we allow flexible working hours with permission from your
reporting managers, unscheduled absence places a burden on
your fellow workers. This may cause disruption of customer
service or may suffer service efficiency. This can adversely
impact business of the company. For this reason, even if
unscheduled absences are covered with Paid Time Off (PTO),
they may still initiate corrective actions. You are expected to
report to work in a punctual manner.

MEAL PERIOD
Meal periods are an employment privilege. Trenser does not
believe in setting a specific time schedule for the meal period and
is left as a choice of employees. We encourage Trensians to
establish regular work schedules and lunch breaks as part of
keeping your health and wellbeing.
* Working hours can be flexible to suit special needs. For example, those who
worked/ plan to work during late hours can avail exemptions with permission
from their reporting manager.

Page 17

USE OF EQUIPMENT
When using company properties, equipment or other shared
resources, all Trensians are expected to exercise care, applicable
safety measures and follow all operating instructions and
guidelines. Such use of company properties is strictly limited for
official purposes as part of performing your job functions.

USE OF INTERNET
Access to the Internet is principally given for work-related
activities. Trenser expects Trensians’ prudence in using the
facility and fosters utilizing the internet to enhance/ boost
learning, researching for personal development and/ or studies.
Additionally, using the internet in ways that are disruptive,
offensive to others, or harmful to morale is strictly not allowed.
This may include but not limited to the following:
Displaying or transmission of sexually explicit or abusive
contents such as images, videos, audios, messages and
cartoons.

Ethnic slurs, racial comments, off-color jokes, or anything that
may be construed as harassment or showing disrespect to
others.
Any activities that are against or harmful to the principles and
culture of the organization.

MONITORING
Trenser is a strong advocate of constructive/ ethical workplace
monitoring with the objective of creating a productive work
environment.
Page 18

environment.
By practicing ethical employee monitoring we strive to reduce any
unethical and illegal behaviors at the workplace (indulging in
gossips, distractions or use of office resources for personal use).
By presenting positive feedback combined with constructive
monitoring, we strive to improve harmony in the workplace,
reduce absenteeism and tardiness, and create a well-functioning
conducive working environment.

UPDATING PERSONAL INFORMATION
To make sure that you receive company communications
promptly and to manage business operations, we need to have
your accurate personal contact information, which may include
your current phone numbers, communication address etc. It’s
important to have your up-to-date personal information on our
personnel records. By providing this contact information, you are
giving consent to its use for business purposes or safety-related
reasons, including consent to contact you at the given
communication channels including via automated technologies.

It is always a good
practice to keep your
personal records up
to date!

Page 19

TRAVEL POLICY
Travel policy applies to all Trensians on the regular rolls of
Trenser, who are required to travel domestic or international for
official purposes.

DOMESTIC TRAVEL
Travel within India are considered domestic travels. All Trensians
who travel to and from domestic destinations are eligible for city
based per diem allowance, over and above reimbursement of
their conveyance expenses.
Whenever travelling time is estimated to be more than 8 hours, it
is eligible for travel by air. However, in all cases, an appropriate
mode of travel shall be recommended by concerned Reporting
Manager of the person who travels.
For all local conveyances during domestic travel, Trensians shall
arrange a personal mode of transportation by themselves paying
the costs incurred. All such reasonable conveyance expenses
shall be reimbursed upon submission of actual bills.
The per diem allowance is defined as below:
. Category

Per diem
Allowance

Description

Tier 1 Cities

INR 750/-

Metropolitan Cities of India namely Delhi,
Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Bangalore,
etc.

Tier 2 Cities

INR 600/-

All non-metropolitan cities and towns in
India

Page 20

INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL
Travelling outside India for official purposes is categorized as
international travel. Trensians who travel internationally are
eligible per diem allowance based on regions they travel to as
listed below. Accommodation expense limits are also defined
based on regions. Also, there are two levels of per diem and
accommodation expenses based on the job band of person
travelling.
PER DIEM ALLOWANCE
Region

Duration of Stay

Band M &
Above

Band L &
Band E

Less than 15 Days

¥ 6,500.00

¥ 6,000.00

More than 15 Days

¥ 6,000.00

¥ 5,500.00

Less than 15 Days

$ 60.00

$ 55.00

More than 15 Days

$ 55.00

$ 50.00

JAPAN

USA

ACCOMMODATION
Region

Duration of Stay

Band M &
Above

Band L &
Band E

JAPAN

Less than 15 Days

¥ 10,500.00

¥ 8,500.00

USA

Less than 15 Days

$ 125.00

$ 100.00

Additional Notes:
All air travel shall be by economy class, irrespective of job
bands.

First time international travelers, who are drawing salary less

Page 21

than INR 6 Lakhs per annum, will be provided a one-time
Dress Allowance of INR 30,000.00.
Short term travelers will be provided a minimum of 1 week’s
telephone roaming charges (Maximum of INR 3,300.00)
Those who are staying for long term shall be eligible for
salary in the foreign country. This shall be decided on a caseby-case basis and based on the residing country and
location.
For all short-term travelers, their salary in India shall be paid
in INR as regular.
Foreign Travel Insurance coverage shall be provided by the
company for all its short-term international travelers.

PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL
Regular performance appraisals are part of the performance
management process. Our performance management process
follows annual appraisal cycle. We practice an open, fair and
transparent process in which each appraisee/ appraiser shall
conduct review of the performance objectively. Planning of the
future KRAs (Key Result Areas) for the upcoming review period is
critical for your career development plan.
Annual appraisal cycle for each employee will be based on their
date of joining. All Trensians’ performance is appraised twice a
year, with 6 months review period.
Upon completing the annual performance review, based on the
combined performance score obtained for the year, one can
become eligible for a change in designation, grade, salary or all of
these, which will be dependent on various criteria as defined in
our career progression policy.
Page 22

HR INITIATES
APPRAISALS FOR
THE MONTH

APPRAISEE RECEIVES
SELF APPRAISAL
FORM

APPRAISEE FILLS IN
AND SUBMITS SELF
APPRAISAL FORM

APPRAISER
CONDUCTS
APPRAISEE REVIEW

ORGANIZATIONAL
REVIEW & APPROVAL

APPRAISERAPPRAISEE MEETING
(SIGN OFF KRA &
SCORE)

HR APPROVAL AND
CLOSURE

APPRAISAL PROCESS

When the appraisal process is initiated by HR, appraisee receives
a personalized email from our Performance Management
System (PMS) indicating that a performance review has been
initiated for that individual.
The personalized notification email will contain information about
the review period in consideration, the timeframe to complete
self-review and the weblink to access the PMS portal. The
appraisee proceeds to complete the self-appraisal form and
submit to appraiser review before the last date.
Following the self-review submission, your appraiser conducts a
face-to-face review meeting with you, assigns his ratings and sets
future your KRAs in discussion with you. An organizational review
shall be conducted thereafter to make sure a fair evaluation has
been done. The final score shall be signed off with HR, and HR
shall facilitate disbursal of the benefits to the appraisee.

Page 23

CAREER PROGRESSION
We have a well-designed career progression path that applies to
all Trensians on the regular rolls of the company, with a broad
categorization as Engineering and Non-Engineering jobs.
Our structure not only caters to vertical growth or advancement to
higher-level job positions, but also encourages a dual career
ladder movement within or across Managerial and Technical
Streams. The career path can be slightly different for each
employee, depending on how long he/ she takes to attain the
goals, performance ratings across years, and other abilities like
software skills. Switching between technical and management
streams also can slow down career advancement.

JOB BANDS AND GRADES
The job functions that encompasses the whole of engineeringrelated jobs are categorized into three job bands as below,
Managing (Band M) - Senior employees who can
independently drive customer requirements to completion and
manage a team or design a large software system.
Leading (Band L) – Those who are approaching the middle
of the career progression. Individual contribution as well as
contribution from small junior members working under him.

Executing (Band E) – Individual contribution is valued.
Given a job band, there are multiple job grades which represent
the current job position within that band. Each job grade expects
job roles based on the functional competency required for the job
grade. The table listed below briefly explains the job bands and
expected functional roles.
Page 24

ENGINEERING JOBS
Job Band

Job
Grade

•
M1

Managing
(M)

M2

M3

Leading
(L)

E2
E3,
E4,E5

Requires in-depth
understanding of the
technical discipline within a
vertical domain or
technology horizontal.

•

Deep expertise in a function/
department/ domain

•

Leading a team accountable
for multiple projects and their
profitability.

•

Accountable for delivery of all
work products from the team.

•

Accountable for implementing
a smaller project/ work plan
responsible for managing the
project for on-time completion.

Leading a team of technical
specialists in a domain or a
technology area.

•

Accountable for creating
solution architectures for
multiple projects

•

Accountable for
implementing a smaller
project/ work plan holding
technical ownership of work
products produced.

•

Perform individual technical tasks and supervise a smaller team of
junior members

•

Individual contributors who perform tasks that need deep technical
expertise and occasionally provide technical leadership to junior
team members.

•

Individual contributors who perform tasks based on specific skill
areas.

•

Uses appropriate procedures/ tools/ methodologies to interpret/
analyze inputs and produce required technical outputs

L2

Executing
(E)

MANAGERIAL STREAM
(Description of responsibility and
scope of impact)

•

L1

E1

TECHNICAL STREAM
(Description of responsibility and
scope of impact)

ENGINEERING JOB BANDS AND GRADES

CAREER PROGRESS – ENGINEERING JOBS
Career progression chart is segregated for the engineering job
functions based on the educational qualifications. The bifurcation
of the same is as below.
B.Tech/ BE/ BS/ MCA/ M.Tech/ MS being mapped into one
group

Diploma/ BCA/ B.Sc./ M.Sc./ PGDCA being mapped to the
second group.
Page 25

Page 26

(B.Tech./BE/BS/MCA/M.Tech./MS)

CAREER PROGRESSION CHART - ENGINEERING JOBS

Page 27

(DIPLOMA/BCA/B.Sc./M.Sc./PGDCA)

CAREER PROGRESSION CHART - ENGINEERING JOBS

NON-ENGINEERING JOBS
Job Band

M1

Managing
(M)

(Description of responsibility and scope of impact)

•

Deep expertise in one or more functional area/ department

•

Leading a team accountable for multiple functions and holds the
expense chart.

•

Accountable for delivery of all work products/ outcomes/ services
from the team/ department.

•

Mentor/ coach and develop team to develop capabilities in specific
areas/ functions

•

Understand strategic intents/ objectives of the organization and
develop strategic steps.

•

Accountable for implementing a smaller department/ function,
holding ownership of work products/ outcomes produced.

•

Develops expertise to independently execute functional
responsibility, leveraging the team's capabilities.

•

Part of a team perform tasks at a higher level, however,
occasionally takes up leadership/ accountability of junior team
members to accomplish their tasks/ responsibilities.

•

Supervising a small team of junior members or individual
contributors who perform tasks that need expertise.

•

Individual contributors who perform tasks based on specific skill
areas.

•

Develops expertise and uses appropriate procedures/ tools/
methodologies to interpret/ analyze inputs and produce required
outcomes.

•

Often requires supervisory leaders to guide, for completing tasks
and managing responsibilities.

M2

M3

Leading
(L)

JOB STREAM FUNCTIONS

Job
Grade

L1
L2

E1

Executing
(E)

E2

E3,
E4,E5

NON-ENGINEERING JOB BANDS AND GRADES

CAREER PROGRESS – NON-ENGINEERING JOBS
Career progression chart is segregated for the non-engineering
jobs based on the educational qualifications. The bifurcation of
the same is as below.
B.Tech/ BE/ BS along with MBA being mapped into one group

Diploma/ Any Bachelors degree being mapped to the other
group.
Page 28

Page 29

(B.Tech./BE/BS + MBA)

CAREER PROGRESSION CHART – NON-ENGINEERING JOBS

Page 30

(DIPLOMA/ POST DIPLOMA/ ANY BACHELORS)

CAREER PROGRESSION CHART – NON-ENGINEERING JOBS

Some important aspects regarding career progression are,
Career progression charts show typical path showing growth
path starting from Job Band E to M with typical residency
periods in each grade. Consistent top performers may
become eligible for an accelerated career path than typical.
The progression within Job Band E will follow normal career
advancement without applying any restrictions. Whereas
progression in Job Band L and above shall be strictly based
on the availability of vacancies.
Above Job Band E, there are two equivalent career
progression streams. One is recognized as Managerial
Stream and the other is recognized as the Technical Stream.
Those who have advanced to the job grades under “Leading”
(Job Band L), will have the option to move across Technical
and Managerial streams without any penalty on their
residency period.
Those who are in the “Managing” job grades (Job Band M)
are typically not expected to move horizontally across
streams. However, exemptions may be considered at the
discretion of senior management.

Selecting the career
path should be based
on your strengths.
You surely can excel in
your strong areas!

Page 31

GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL
In any Organization, differences of opinions are bound to occur
between people. At Trenser, we strive to ensure that the
grievances are immediately addressed and suitably settled. We
advocate an open-door policy, and you may feel free to discuss
issues whenever required. In case you have any grievances, they
should be immediately brought to the notice of the organization in
the following order of hierarchy:

REPORTING
MANAGER

• REPORTING
DISCUSSION
• CORRECTIVE
ACTION

HR
MANAGER

• REVIEW
MEETING
• CORRECTIVE
ACTION

CXO

• FINAL
DECISION

The sequence doesn’t cascade to the next stage if the problem
gets resolved in any of these stages.

NON-DISCLOSURE POLICY
Employees are expected not to misuse confidential information,
including internal and customer-related information and other
confidential matters about Trenser that are not publicly available.
Confidential information if disclosed, places at risk of criminal or
civil liability, or damage, employability, privacy or reputation.
Confidential information includes but is not limited to:
Compensation Data
Computer Processes, Programs, Source Codes, Workflow
Business plans, financials, tools, products, strategy methods

Page 32

Client account details or Client Information
Financial Information

Research and Development Strategies
Marketing Strategies
New Materials Research
Pending Projects and Proposals
Technical Data/ Prototypes
All information, documents, details regarding proprietary
information, and other material of genuinely confidential nature
concerning Trenser or any of its clients acquired during your
employment shall not be disclosed to any third party without
written consent from Trenser or if compelled by law.
All employees having access to sensitive and confidential
documents during VISA applications or other similar
organizational needs, are expected to treat all the specifics with
extreme confidentiality and are accountable for its proper and
legitimate use.
Such confidential documents while in possession are not to be
replicated (either electronically or in hardcopy) and shall be
disclosed only for the intended purpose and shall be returned to
HR after such use.

RESIGNATION OR TERMINATION
All Trensians who are exiting employment with us, either
resigning, retiring, or termination shall come under the purview of
this procedure. Notice Period particulars, the procedure to be
followed and the responsibility of the resigning team member are
outlined as below:
Page 33

Category

Description/ Remarks

Planned Resignation

Written notice period of 3 months

Termination due to
poor performance

Written notice period of 3 months

Termination due to
misconduct

Termination of employment with immediate effect
without any prior notice

We advise employees to follow the below procedure, in the event
of resignation:
Inform your plan of resignation to Reporting Manager
Discuss any issues that may exist that can be resolved
Submit formal Resignation via E-mail to HR Manager
Keep your Reporting Manager in copy
HR Confirms Resignation Plan and Acknowledge via E-mail
Your last-working day will be recorded in the HR intimation E-mail*
TWO Weeks before your last working day

Submit Asset Return Plan to
HR & Reporting Manager

Submit No Dues Form to HR

On Your Last Working Day meet HR Manager to
Return all Company
Assets & ID card

Collect Resignation
Acceptance Letter

Confirm initiation of Full
& Final settlement

*Early Relieving
-

-

Please refer to the “Exit & Separation Policy” below for
more details on early relieving.
Early relieving requests must be sent to HR by e-mail with
concurrence from your Reporting Manager.
Early relieving requests on short notice will not be
considered.

Page 34

After the submission of the resignation, you are required to:
Continue regular work until the last scheduled day of
employment with us as per the directions of your reporting
manager.
Turn in all reports required to be completed when due and no
later than the last day of work.

Obtain prior permission from reporting manager for leaves
during notice period.
Return all files, documents, equipment, keys, access cards,
all passwords, software or other property belonging to the
company in your possession.
Make sure that any data stored in Electronic form, other than
in your company-provided devices if any must be destroyed
on before your last working day.

Help us with advance
notice for a smooth exit
process. Please contact
your HR Manager in
case of any queries!

Page 35

EXIT AND SEPARATION POLICY
When an employee is exiting the organization, the following
policies apply to ensure the employee's separation from the
company's services is complete in all respects:
Requests for resignation must be sent to HR via an e-mail
with a copy to Reporting Manager. No other form of
resignation will be accepted or processed.
All Employees will have to serve the required notice period as
per the employment terms. The date of receiving the
resignation request e-mail by HR is considered the start of
the notice period.
Any requests for early exit must be discussed and agreed
upon with the Reporting Manager. Such request must then be
sent to HR by e-mail with a copy to the Reporting Manager. In
discussion with the Reporting Manager, HR will decide and
acknowledge the acceptance or rejection of the request by email. The exiting employee is responsible for obtaining the
final exit date from HR by e-mail if such a request was made.
When a resignation request is received, HR will acknowledge
the same via e-mail with any additional information, including
your last working day, within 05 working days of receiving the
resignation request.
During the notice period, HR will guide you through the exit
process, including clearance of dues, return of assets, and
information about your full & final settlement.
On your last working day, HR will provide the Resignation
Acceptance Letter and initiate full & final settlement with the
Finance Team.

Page 36

Your full & final settlement will be complete within 30
calendars days from your last working day.

Though the full and final settlement payment may take up to
30 days, the formal relieving letter will be released once your
"No Dues" form is verified and cleared.

ALIGNMENT OF YOUR LAST WORKING DAY
If your last working day falls on a Monday, Tuesday or
Wednesday, then your last working day will be set as the
previous Friday.
If your last working day is on Thursday, your last working day
will be set to the next day (Friday).
If your last working days falls on non-working day, your last
working day will be reset to previous working day.

FULL AND FINAL SETTLEMENT
If your last-working day falls on or before the 10th of the
month, the previous month's salary and the last-working
month's salary will be processed only along with the full &
final settlement.
If your last-working day falls after the 10th of the month, the
previous month's salary will be processed as usual, and the
salary of the last-working month will be processed along with
the full & final settlement.
Your last working month salary will be calculated only till the
agreed last-working day after applying the day alignment
policy.

Page 37

GENERAL INFORMATION
Some general information that may be handy while you are in the
office is listed below.
Our annual event “TrenZ” is a great occasion of Trensians
gathering with family, celebrated in June. It is a great time to
showcase your talents beyond professional abilities and
encourage others. Be part of it!.
If you have lost your Access Control/ ID card, report it
immediately to the HR Manager.
In case you forget to bring Access Control/ ID card, please
obtain a temporary Access Control/ ID card issued by HR.
Remember to promptly return it in the next working day.
Company may call for townhall meetings or other meetings
where employees presence is requested. You are requested
to be present on time on all such meet ups where you are
invited.
First Aid Box available at our premises. Please contact HR
department whenever you or a fellow worker needs it.

Here are some quick listing of do’s and don’ts, for reference.

SOME DOs
Do arrive office early or on time

Always bring Access Control/ ID card and wear it visibly while
you are in the office premises.
Be willing to engage coworkers who asks for help.
Be open-minded in both your work and in your
communications.
Page 38

Do adopt a formal attitude towards your work and how you
deal with outsiders when representing Trenser.
Obtain prior permission from reporting manager if you plan to
be in office on non-working hours or non-working days.

SOME DON’Ts
Allowing your friends, old colleagues or family members
inside the access control restricted areas in the office
premises without prior permission.
Smoking inside or outside the work premises.
Possessing weapons, use of intoxicating substances/alcohol/
drugs while on duty.
Excessive absenteeism or absence without notice
Copying, pirating, or downloading software that are not
intended for work
Sending or posting confidential material, or proprietary
information outside of the organization
Sending or posting messages or material that could damage
the organization's image or reputation
Sending or posting messages that defame other individuals
Physical violence or threatening behavior in the workplace,
on company premises, at work-related functions, when you’re
traveling on business, or another location.
Deliberate or reckless destruction of company property or
another team member’s personal property
Theft or inappropriate removal or possession of the company
property

Page 39

Stealing, using, or disclosing someone else's code or
password without authorization

Any queries regarding
company policies or
about this handbook,
please contact your HR
Manager!

Page 40

OFFICE FACILITIES
REGISTERED OFFICE

OTHER OFFICES

Ground Floor, Nila Building,
Technopark Campus,
Trivandrum, Kerala, India.
PIN-695581.

First Floor, Periyar Building,
Technopark Campus,
Trivandrum, Kerala, India.
PIN-695581.

Phone: +91-471-405-5066
+91-471-270-0844

Second Floor, Gayatri Building,
Technopark Campus,
Trivandrum, Kerala, India.
PIN-695581.

JAPAN OFFICE
405 Asahi Jimbocho Puraza Biru
2-14 KandaJinbocho, Chiyoda-ku,
Tokyo, 101-0051 Japan.
Phone: +81-3-6910-0675

Trenser Employee Handbook

Revision 2.3

